hi I'm dr. Adam fields and welcome to a
video that's gonna help people with
sleep apnea and snoring we're gonna
start with doing some massage some
circular motions just like this just do
it vigorously go for it let's get some
blood into the area we're gonna be
working three different areas the nose
the throat and the tongue believe it or
not let's get some this is a great
adjunct to getting care in our office so
go for it this give it some energy
circular motions oh loving it okay now
we're gonna take the knuckles and get in
there right next to the nose and push I
want you to feel pain okay push hard if
you don't feel pain move it out a little
bit and just get in there and just dig
just feel it sometimes I do this and
people come in I'll only do this people
come back the next visit and say oh wow
my nasal passages are way open so this
is this is in and of itself is a great
one move a little bit outside and push a
little harder really get in you might
even feel it radiate you might feel it
radiate into your lip and just push
relax the shoulders the chest is up big
breath in just breathe through that nose
breathing through your nose actually
secretes nitric oxide in your lungs and
helps even your lungs expand nasal
breathing is so important okay we're
gonna do some nasal breathing through
one nostril so take your left hand I'm
going to do the mirror image of what you
do close your right your left nostril
and then breathe in
you can close your eyes and close that
nostril breathe in deep feel your ribs
expand on this it might be difficult to
breathe through your that nostril but
let's go ahead and just give it a shot
if you feel dizzy or anything to stop or
breathe in with your opposite nostril
and just breathe in and breathe out
you're increasing your respiratory
strength here also your endurance now
get a rhythm switch to the other side
your nose warms the incoming air for
optimal lung function at the same time
it's helping your pituitary gland
regulate body temperature and sleeping
patterns make those inhales grande make
them big go for it just the act of
breathing through your nose helps keep
the nasal passages open
nose breathing reduces anxiety nose
breathing reduces snoring who knows it's
gonna feel a little more open now let's
do some occipital lifts now the back and
the side we're gonna lift that up
because a lot of you are like this and
that's closing down your breathing
centers neurologically and closing down
your nose so take the knuckle right here
and just lift that skull and bring the
opposite side down good now lift the
other side and lift here we go we're
gonna just lift that skull bring the one
hand down and the top hand is gonna push
up up and towards the sky diagonally
good pushing it out and pulling it down
good you can just tap in a little bit
you might feel a little restriction one
side more than another just lift let's
go maybe a little bit of a change over
the angle bring the head forward just a
little bit see if there's a restriction
on either side there find the
restriction capitalize on it good now
really good posture bring that chest up
lifting that skull your head I'll feel a
little bit like your head I'll be able
to go back a little easier over your
shoulders after this exercise just keep
lifting lifting good oh let's do a few
more and we're gonna move on to the
throat let's go one two three
put the tip of you
tongue between your teeth and let's
begin to do some swallowing when you do
five swallows just with the tip
a little challenging let's gathering
some saliva and let's go a little bit
further out with the tongue now you'll
feel that throat really work mmm stop
now take the tip of your tongue behind
the lower teeth push that jaw open and
open your mouth as wide as you can
now use your tongue to open your jaw
even more pull your shoulders down like
you're putting your shoulder blades in
your back pocket and take some big deep
breaths with this keep that jaw open as
wide as you can
very good
now we're gonna massage that y'all that
good get in there you'll notice there
your voice is a little deeper after that
open mouth exercise sound like a
late-night DJ hey just massage
let's get that jaw so can open up what
it needs to get everything open air just
installing windows in your nose and your
throat control we don't want that tongue
to go back into the back of the throat
let's go ahead and do it again open
mouth tongue crow forward
arrange your pot
you're as good as you can and take deep
breaths feel proud like there's a string
attached to your head and it's just
pulling you to the ceiling relax your
shoulders down breathe deeply in through
your nose
you
this you can do on a regular basis
now with that mouth open you're gonna be
taking some deep breaths and when you
breathe out I want like there's an egg
in the back here throat you're gonna be
saying ah okay so oh
really push push the tongue down down
hard on the floor of your mouth
like a doctor has a tongue suppressor in
the back of your throat
ha
oh good it sounded kind of silly so
we're gonna smile we're actually gonna
do half smiles now you're gonna go the
left side then the right left
right get that corner of your mouth way
up
laughs
and right
feel silly yet
it's okay laughs
right
you
laughs
right
the next thing we do we're gonna get
work a muscle called the posterior
digastric muscle take your thumb bring
it to the corner of your jaw and this is
something you can do if you feel
tenderness in there or radiation into
the back you throat you can really do
this a lot go to the corner of your jaw
take your thumb and bring it up behind
your jaw if you feel a little tenderness
in there that's the posterior digastric
muscle we can even work both of them at
the same time I kind of like just one
just for daily activity but for right
now let's find let's see if we can find
some tenderness and just push up
if you feel weird if this doesn't feel
right in any way just stop immediately
but that little tenderness it's a muscle
if you don't feel it on the left just
hold it on the right
you don't feel it on the right just hold
it on the left and just hold that muscle
you might feel a little radiation if you
do you can also give it some back and
forth on that this is a great muscle boy
this is such a secret and getting the
throat open up getting the breathing
opened up just work all behind that jaw
wherever you feel any tenderness you can
work all the way to the front of your
chin
this is one if you feel it you can do it
like throughout the day even
you
mmm feels good
we're gonna do some imprinting of your
tongue kind of like when we did the Oz
we're just gonna push that tongue as
hard as we can down into the bottom of
your mouth so push for about ten seconds
and we'll relax for a second then we'll
do another one
your strengthening and ex
sizing your tongue muscles right now the
throat and even your jaw muscles with
this one
good in another
we're moving your tongue away from your
airway
you
let's get the tongue we're gonna
exercise it in three ranges of motion
you're gonna bring to the chin hold it
for about five seconds and we're gonna
bring it to the nose for five seconds
and then to the ceiling for five seconds
we're going to do a lot of reps of these
okay we want to get that tongue again so
it doesn't fall back to the back of the
throat so let's go ahead and open it
and to the nose
you
to the ceiling with the head back your
trachea when you look up to the ceiling
is going to be lifted upward your throat
muscles will contract to the chin
knows
you
and all the muscles in your front of
your neck are exercised and stretch
chin
you
knows when the trachea is elevated your
tongue is going to remain in a neutral
position rather than slipping back to
your throat Celie
you
one more round
knows
you
feeling
you feel a little goofy but you did a
lot of great for yourself make sure you
do this every day while you're getting
care probably giving the cranial
adjusting in our office see you soon